=head1 NAME

fire - wrapper to assist applying husk compiled rules

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fire [OPTIONS]

'fire' is the recommended method to compile and apply a husk ruleset.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

'fire' will manage several things automatically:

=over 4

=item 1. Execute L<husk(1)> to compile your rules to iptables commands

=item 2. Save the current iptables rules to a temporary backup

=item 3. Apply the new rules

=item 4. Ask you for confirmation the rules applied successfully

=item 5. If successful, attempt to save the new rules to the appropriate
location for your distributions init scripts to load at next boot.
If unsuccessful, restore the previous ruleset from step 2.

=back

IMPORTANT: As of version 0.9.11, husk can generate multiple output formats.
'fire' will ONLY work with C<restore> output. If you prefer another output
format, you will need to apply rules manually (or supply a patch to make
'fire' work with multiple formats ;))

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -f

Don't ask for confirmation that the new ruleset applied successfully.
B<DON'T MAKE A HABIT OF USING THIS!>

=item -s

Perform a basic examination of the current rules and make some suggestions
for how they could be improved.

=back

=head1 HOOKS

Hooks are provided for custom scripts to run both before (pre) and after (post)
applying new firewall rules. To use hooks, place your scripts in
C</etc/husk/pre.d/> or C</etc/husk/post.d/> for before and after respectively.
Make sure your script is executable (C<chmod +x>) otherwise it will be skipped
(which is actually useful for disabling a hook temporarily).

=head1 BUGS

=head2 Reporting Bugs

Email bug reports to L<fukawi2@gmail.com|mailto://fukawi2@gmail.com>

=head2 Known Bugs

Probably some...

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Part of this script is based on the I<iptables-apply> script written by
Martin F. Krafft <madduck@madduck.net> and distributed under the Artistic
Licence 2.0

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2010-2013 Phillip Smith

Made available under the conditions of the GPLv2. This is free software; refer
to the F<LICENSE> file for details.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

L<http://www.huskfw.info/>

L<http://github.com/fukawi2/husk/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Phillip Smith aka fukawi2

=cut
