=head1 NAME

fwlog2rule - convert kernel netfilter logs to husk rule syntax

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fwlog2rule [OPTIONS]

'fwlog2rule' reads from standard input and write husk rules to match
netfilter logs

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When debugging firewall blocks, fwlog2rule will automatically convert a kernel
netfilter log into an appropriate husk rule for inclusion in your husk ruleset.

fwlog2rule currently only reads from standard input. The recommended usage is
to extract the relevant blocks from your firewall logs using standard utilities
and pipe that data to fwlog2rule.

  grep 192.168.0.100 /var/log/messages | tail -n1 | fwlog2rule

Modify your grep (or other filtering) command to only feed fwlog2rule the
appropriate lines for what you want rules for.

The output rule is made a specific as possible; you may want (or need) to remove
some of the criteria to make it a usable rule.

=head1 EXAMPLE

If the last line logged in your system for 172.16.3.1 is this:

  Jan 29 12:27:35 neo kernel: [33219.514005] [UFW AUDIT] IN= OUT=eth0 SRC=172.16.3.2 DST=74.125.237.150 LEN=52 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=64 ID=423 DF PROTO=TCP SPT=38581 DPT=443 WINDOW=814 RES=0x00 SYN URGP=0

This command:

  grep 172.16.3.1 /var/log/messages | tail -n1 | fwlog2rule

Would return this rule:

  accept ip 4 source address 172.16.3.2 destination address 74.125.237.150 protocol tcp source port 38581 port 443

=head1 OPTIONS

None at present.

=head1 BUGS

=head2 Reporting Bugs

Email bug reports to L<fukawi2@gmail.com|mailto://fukawi2@gmail.com>

=head2 Known Bugs

Probably some...

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The idea for this script came from a presentation at linux.conf.au where the
selinux I<audit2allow> command was talked about.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2013-2015 Phillip Smith

Made available under the conditions of the GPLv2. This is free software; refer
to the F<LICENSE> file for details.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

L<http://www.huskfw.info/>

L<http://github.com/fukawi2/husk/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Phillip Smith aka fukawi2

=cut
