=head1 NAME

husk.conf - configuration files for husk iptables wrapper

=head1 SYNOPSIS

husk.conf

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The husk.conf file is for basic configuration of the husk wrapper itself. Rules
are not defined here (they are in rules.conf)

=head1 FILE FORMAT

The file consists of key = value parameters. Comments are supported and begin
with a hash (#) continuing to the end of the line.

=head1 PARAMETERS

=over 4

=item C<conf_dir>

Location where configuration, rules etc are found. Not very well tested so it's
probably best to just leave it as the default by commenting this option
completely.

Default: /etc/husk/

=item C<rules_file>

The filename of your rules. You could have several sets of rules (rules1.conf
to rulesN.conf) and switch between them by changing this configuration option.

Default: rules.conf

=item C<udc_prefix>

This prefix is prefixed to User-Defined Chains (UDC) that husk generates. This
applies to any chains created using a 'define rules' block that isn't a
cross-zone match. For example, 'define rules BLACKLIST' will be called
'prefix_BLACKLIST', by default 'sbrt_BLACKLIST'. Having a common prefix helps
sort output and identify generated rules, as well as avoid potential name
collisions.

Default: sbrt_

=item C<ipv4>

A boolean value (1 or 0) to set if husk should generate output for IPv4 (ie,
iptables).

Default: 1

=item C<ipv6>

A boolean value (1 or 0) to set if husk should generate output for IPv6 (ie,
ip6tables).

Default: 0

=item C<ignore_autoconf>

Sometimes devices like to autoconfigure themselves using RFC3927. Personally I
find this to be annoying and I don't want the anti-spoof rules to log this
traffic. Setting c<ignore_autoconf> to 1 will add rules to the anti-spoof
chains to silently DROP autoconfig traffic before those packets hit the LOG
rules. This is a boolean value (1 or 0).

Default: 0

=item C<old_state_track>

By default, husk generated rules using the 'conntrack' module and the 'ctstate'
flag when generating rules involving connection state. Some distributions still
do not contain support for this module; if this includes your distribution, set
this option to 1 and go file a bug report ;) This is a boolean value (1 or 0).

Known to affect: CentOS 5 (ip6tables only)

Default: 0

=item C<no_ipv6_comments>

Some early IPv6 kernels did not have support for the "comment" iptables module.
Husk includes a comment with all rules to help identify the source of a
particular rule. This issue is known to affect CentOS 5. To disable comments on
IPv6 rules, set this option to 1.

Known to affect: CentOS 5 (ip6tables only)

Default: 0

=item C<iptables>

The path to iptables binary on your system. Usually C</sbin/iptables> or
C</usr/sbin/iptables> depending on your distribution.

Default: Attempt to locate in $PATH

=item C<ip6tables>

The path to ip6tables binary on your system. Usually C</sbin/ip6tables> or
C</usr/sbin/ip6tables> depending on your distribution.

Default: Attempt to locate in $PATH

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

	ipv4 = 1
	ipv6 = 1
	ignore_autoconf = 1
	udc_prefix = tgt_

=head1 FILES

F</etc/husk/husk.conf> or F<husk.conf>

=head1 VERSION

This man page was valid as at version %VERSION%

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None.

=head1 AUTHOR

Phillip Smith aka fukawi2

Support and development are available at http://huskfw.info

=cut
